---
layout: post
title: How to Add Word Count to Sublime Text 2
---

h1. {{ page.title }}

p(meta). 8 January 2014

I am a huge fan of Sublime Text, and I am also making it a resolution for the new year to write more. In fact, I recently read an "article":http://nathanbarry.com/365/ from Nathan Barry about committing to write 1,000 words for 365 days in a row. When I read the article, it inspired me to take more action to write more each day. So... how does this relate to Sublime Text? Well, follow along as I show you how to add a word count feature to Sublime Text, so that you can keep track of how many words you are writing. "Email me":mailto:sean@seanlabs.com and let me know your other cool Sublime Text tricks.

h2. Step 1

Open Sublime Text 2

h2. Step 2

Install Package Control by selecting "Show Console" from the View dropdown menu. Copy and paste the Python code listed at the following link: "Package Control Installation":https://sublime.wbond.net/installation#st2 into the Console and hit the Enter key

h2. Step 3

Now that you have installed Package Control, choose the Command Palette from the Tools dropdown menu

h2. Step 4

Start typing "Package" and then select "Package Control: Add Repository" and hit the Enter key

h2. Step 5

Enter the WordCount github repo URL _https://github.com/SublimeText/WordCount_

h2. Step 6

Open up the Command Palette again by selecting it from the Tools dropdown menu

h2. Step 7

Start typing "Package" and then select "Package Control: Install Package" and hit the Enter key

h2. Step 8

Start typing "Word" and then select "WordCount" and hit the Enter key

h2. Step 9

WordCount will be installed and you can view the total number of words in your file by looking in the lower left hand corner of Sublime Text
